Add new hybrid node attestor (#3)
HewlettPackard/roven: hybrid/README.md

# Hybrid Node Attestor

> The `hybrid` node attestor plugin for SPIRE is an external plugin, that combines the power of any built-in plugin supported by spire. With this approach you can use any combination of the built-in plugins in order to attest the node. For example, you can mix the k8s_psat and the aws_iid plugins to attest that the agent node is running in a kubernetes cluster inside a aws machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `hybrid` node attestor plugin for SPIRE is an external plugin, that combines the power of any built-in plugin supported by SPIRE. With this approach you can use any combination of the built-in plugins in order to attest the node. For example, you can mix the k8s_psat and the aws_iid plugins to attest that the agent node is running in a kubernetes cluster inside a aws machine.
```

## SpiffeID

> The hybrid plugin will always return the spiffeID generated by the first plugin of the list supplied to the server. The order of the plugins supplied for both server and agent does not matter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hybrid plugin will always return the SpiffeID generated by the first plugin of the list supplied to the server. The order of the plugins supplied for both server and agent does not matter.
```

## Basic deployment
The hybrid plugin works as any external plugin would. It is designed to work as an external plugin, acting as a plugin aggregator.

> To deploy, it must first be built and in the configuration supplied to spire, you must pass the list of built-in plugins that should be used in combination ir order to attest the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy, it must first be built and in the configuration supplied to SPIRE, you must pass the list of built-in plugins that should be used in combination ir order to attest the node.
```

## Building
Start by building the binaries

`make build`

## Configuring

> In order to use the hybrid plugin with the spire instance, add in the spire configuration file as an external plugin, informing the name, plugin_cmd and in the section plugins, inside plugin_data, add the built-in plugins configuration. Here's an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use the hybrid plugin with the SPIRE instance, add in the spire configuration file as an external plugin, informing the name, plugin_cmd and in the section plugins, inside plugin_data, add the built-in plugins configuration. Here's an example:
```

> # Hybrid Node Attestor

Reviewer 2: Add the build badge here, as in the `tpm_psat` README.

Author: Done

> The `hybrid` node attestor plugin for SPIRE is an external plugin, that combines the power of any built-in plugin supported by spire. With this approach you can use any combination of the built-in plugins in order to attest the node. For example, you can mix the k8s_psat and the aws_iid plugins to attest that the agent node is running in a kubernetes cluster inside a aws machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `hybrid` node attestor plugin for SPIRE is an external plugin, that combines the power of any built-in plugin supported by spire. With this approach you can use any combination of the built-in plugins in order to attest the node. For example, you can mix the `k8s_psat` and the `aws_iid` plugins to attest that the agent node is running on an AWS EKS or an EC2 instance with a self managed k8s cluster.
```

## SpiffeID
The hybrid plugin will always return the spiffeID generated by the first plugin of the list supplied to the server. The order of the plugins supplied for both server and agent does not matter.

## Basic deployment
The hybrid plugin works as any external plugin would. It is designed to work as an external plugin, acting as a plugin aggregator.

> To deploy, it must first be built and in the configuration supplied to spire, you must pass the list of built-in plugins that should be used in combination ir order to attest the node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To deploy it, first build and update the configuration for both SPIRE Server and Agent passing the list of built-in plugins that will be used in combination ir order to attest the node.
```

## Building
Start by building the binaries

`make build`

## Configuring

> In order to use the hybrid plugin with the spire instance, add in the spire configuration file as an external plugin, informing the name, plugin_cmd and in the section plugins, inside plugin_data, add the built-in plugins configuration. Here's an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to use the hybrid plugin with the spire instance, add in the spire configuration file as an external plugin, informing the name, `plugin_cmd` and in the section plugins, inside `plugin_data`, add the built-in plugins configuration. Here's an example:
```

        plugin_cmd = "path/to/builded/file"
        plugin_data {
          plugins {
            first_selected_plugin {
                [plugin_config]
            }
            second_selected_plugin {
                [plugin_config]
            }
            [...]
          }
        }
      }
    }
```

**Agent**
 ```
    plugins {
      NodeAttestor "hybrid" {
        plugin_cmd = "path/to/builded/file"
        plugin_data {
          plugins {
            first_selected_plugin {
                [plugin_config]
            }
            second_selected_plugin {
                [plugin_config]
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
 ```

### Deploying the hybrid using aws_iid and k8s_psat node attestors
To combine those two plugins, you have to be running the agent and server in an kubernetes instance inside aws.

Start off by creating an ec2 instance and deploying a kind kubernetes cluster or creating an eks cluster.

After that, run the following make command while in hybrid root folder:

`make build`

Then, to construct the docker images and push to any repo desired, change the value of the Makefile property called DOCKER_REGISTRY and run the following command:

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we fetch this value from the ENV? That way we can change it more easily

[![PR Build](https://github.com/HewlettPackard/roven/actions/workflows/hybrid-pr-build.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/HewlettPackard/roven/actions/workflows/hybrid-pr-build.yaml)

# Hybrid Node Attestor

> The `hybrid` node attestor plugin for SPIRE is an external plugin, that combines the power of any built-in plugin supported by spire. With this approach you can use any combination of the built-in plugins in order to attest the node. For example, you can mix the k8s_psat and the aws_iid plugins to attest that the agent node is running on an AWS EKS or an EC2 instance with a self managed k8s cluster.

Reviewer 3: IIRC this doesn't work with built-in node attestors that can reattest?

Author: This works with those build-in node attestors that can reattest. If one of the plugins used with the hybrid cannot reattest, then the hybrid itself will forbid reattestation.

## SpiffeID

> The hybrid plugin will always return the SpiffeID generated by the first plugin of the list supplied to the server. The order of the plugins supplied for both server and agent does not matter.

Reviewer 3: what does the second sentence means? it's kind of contradictory with the first sentence, maybe something like
`Besides the SPIFFE ID generation, the order of the plugins supplied in both Server and Agent does not makes any other difference.`

## Basic deployment
The hybrid plugin works as any external plugin would. It is designed to work as an external plugin, acting as a plugin aggregator.

> To deploy it, first build and update the configuration for both SPIRE Server and Agent passing the list of built-in plugins that will be used in combination ir order to attest the node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To deploy it, first build and update the configuration for both SPIRE Server and Agent passing the list of built-in plugins that will be used in combination in order to attest the node.
```

## Building
Start by building the binaries

`make build`

## Configuring
In order to use the hybrid plugin with the SPIRE instance, add in the SPIRE configuration file as an external plugin, informing the name, `plugin_cmd` and in the section plugins, inside `plugin_data`, add the built-in plugins configuration. Here's an example:

 **Server**
 ```
    plugins{
      NodeAttestor "hybrid" {

>         plugin_cmd = "path/to/builded/file"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        plugin_cmd = "path/to/attestor/server/binary"
```

        plugin_data {
          plugins {
            first_selected_plugin {
                [plugin_config]
            }
            second_selected_plugin {
                [plugin_config]

>             }

Reviewer 3: nit
```suggestion
            <first_plugin> {
                [plugin_config]
            }
            <second_plugin> {
                [plugin_config]
            }
```

            [...]
          }
        }
      }
    }
```

**Agent**
 ```
    plugins {
      NodeAttestor "hybrid" {

>         plugin_cmd = "path/to/builded/file"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        plugin_cmd = "path/to/attestor/agent/binary"
```

        plugin_data {
          plugins {
            first_selected_plugin {
                [plugin_config]
            }
            second_selected_plugin {
                [plugin_config]

>             }

Reviewer 3: nit
```suggestion
            <first_plugin> {
                [plugin_config]
            }
            <second_plugin> {
                [plugin_config]
            }
```

          }
        }
      }
    }
 ```

### Deploying the hybrid using aws_iid and k8s_psat node attestors
To combine those two plugins, you have to be running the agent and server in an kubernetes instance inside aws.

> Start off by creating an ec2 instance and deploying a kind kubernetes cluster or creating an eks cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Start off by creating an EC2 instance and deploying a custom Kubernetes cluster or creating an EKS cluster.
```

> After that, run the following make command while in hybrid root folder:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After that, run the following command while in the hybrid root directory:
```

`make build`

> Then, to construct the docker images and push to any repo desired, set the environment variable DOCKER_HUB that should point to the docker image registry and it's used by the MAKEFILE and run the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To build the docker images and push them to a registry, set the environment variable `DOCKER_HUB` and run the following command:
```

`make docker`

> With the hybrid node attestor built and the docker image constructed, you now have to deploy it in the running kubernetes cluster in the aws. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With the hybrid node attestor built and the Docker image constructed, you now have to deploy it in the running Kubernetes cluster in AWS. 
```

Configure kubectl to point to the aws cluster.
Change the credentials in the server.yaml and agent.yaml that are in the hybrid/dev/kubernetes and run the following command:

> `make deploy-agent-server-eks`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`make deploy-spire-eks`
```

[![PR Build](https://github.com/HewlettPackard/roven/actions/workflows/hybrid-pr-build.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/HewlettPackard/roven/actions/workflows/hybrid-pr-build.yaml)

# Hybrid Node Attestor

> The `hybrid` node attestor plugin for SPIRE is an external plugin, that combines the power of any built-in plugin supported by SPIRE. With this approach you can use any combination of the built-in plugins in order to attest the node. For example, you can mix the k8s_psat and the aws_iid plugins to attest that the agent node is running on an AWS EKS or an EC2 instance with a self managed k8s cluster.

Reviewer 4: mmm, this can result in some confusion, 
here you said `you can use any combination of the built-in plugins in order to attest the node` but what happens if one of the attestor fails, all fails or 1 is enough?

Author: if any of the plugins used in the combination fails, the attestation will fail.

## SpiffeID
The hybrid plugin will always return the SpiffeID generated by the first plugin of the list supplied to the server.

## Basic deployment
The hybrid plugin works as any external plugin would. It is designed to work as an external plugin, acting as a plugin aggregator.
To deploy it, first build and update the configuration for both SPIRE Server and Agent passing the list of built-in plugins that will be used in combination in order to attest the node. The order of the plugins supplied for both server and agent does not have to be the same.

## Building
Start by building the binaries

`make build`

## Configuring
In order to use the hybrid plugin with the SPIRE instance, add in the SPIRE configuration file as an external plugin, informing the name, `plugin_cmd` and in the section plugins, inside `plugin_data`, add the built-in plugins configuration. Here's an example:

 **Server**

>  ```

Reviewer 4: both examples are basically how to deploy an external plugin, but I think since we are talking about hybrid attestor, the example here must be how to configure that attestor.
plugin_cmd  has a `path/to/attestor/server/binary` as target you may set the hybrid attestor name + a path
maybe: `plugin_cmd = "${PATH_TO_SERVER}/hybrid_server"`
or as you put here `plugin_cmd = "path/to/attestor/server/hybrid_server"` is enough?

Reviewer 4: and a real example can be useful too,  an example where you set 2 real attestors

Author: The exemple given is passing two real attestors, we just ommitted the name. And the hybrid plugin is an external plugin, so to deploy it you should do like any other external plugin. I think this is enough.

    plugins{
      NodeAttestor "hybrid" {
        plugin_cmd = "path/to/attestor/server/binary""
        plugin_data {
          plugins {
            <first_plugin> {
                [plugin_config]
            }
            <second_plugin> {
                [plugin_config]
            }
            [...]
          }
        }
      }
    }
```

**Agent**
 ```
    plugins {
      NodeAttestor "hybrid" {
        plugin_cmd = "path/to/attestor/agent/binary"
        plugin_data {
          plugins {
            <first_plugin> {
                [plugin_config]
            }
            <second_plugin> {
                [plugin_config]
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
 ```

> ### Deploying the hybrid using aws_iid and k8s_psat node attestors

Reviewer 4: NIT: maybe you can add links to make tasks (I don't like to run scripts that I don't know what they are doing, and more in cases where it will deploy on eks)

Reviewer 4: even, maybe it is better to have an example that does not require a platform at all, and can works in a local environment like kind or minikube

Author: But this is how it's done in minikube. It's the same in eks or minikube/kind
